>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's move on
to talking about extension methods, we're
just gonna touch on this real briefly,
because they are important to know.
Especially as we come up on talking
about LINQ (Language Integrated Query), which is the next section,
which I'm really excited to talk about.
But sometimes there are situations where
you have classes that maybe they're in
a separate library.
Maybe they're in a NuGet package and
you don't wanna decompile the source
code or build it yourself.
You just wanna use the package
as it was intended, and
maybe add a few extra behaviors or
things to it that you just wanna do.
Maybe it's a method that doesn't quite
fit inside of another class, right?
So, you wanna add that method, but
it really kind of doesn't fit
in with the rest of the class.
It's kind of just stands alone, especially
in the context of maybe it's useful in
this library, but it's not useful.
It's useful in this ASP Net
core application, but
it's not useful in this Winforms app.
So, string is a good example of that,
string is a sealed class means you
cannot inherit from it, thank goodness.
And it's fundamental to the language,
but you can't extend it very much,
which is fine, but
maybe not ideal for a given use case.
You may find that you wanna do things with
the string that are maybe specific to your
use case but do it in a way
that's convenient for developers.
So, extension methods are kind of the
magic that kind of makes that possible.
So, an extension method allows
you to essentially add behavior
to an existing thing without
actually extending that thing,
let me show you what that looks like.
Let's take, for example,
the string class that we already have and
maybe we want to define a method
that basically says is palindrome.
Maybe we're doing some kind of riddle
application or some kind of puzzle
application, and knowing if a string is a
palindrome is very useful in that context,
but not really in the context
of the real world.
You can have this string extensions class
that essentially defines a static, so
this is a static class.
It has only behaviors,
it does not have properties, and
it only has behaviors that can
affect other things, right?
There's no instances of this class, you
just use it to hold methods essentially or
properties that other things can use.
And then you have this static
method called is palindrome and
you want it to operate on strings.
Copy this over to our code,
remove this and
then paste this in, perfect, okay.
We could very easily go up to this and
say var maam.
And then we could easily say String
Extensions, because that's the name of
the class that we've defined our method
in, is Palindrome, and say maam, right?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
then we can put it out to console and
see the value, boom,
open our terminal. dotnet run.
And see that it is indeed a palindrome,
in other words,
a word that is spelled the same
way forwards as backwards.
But we do this a lot, we don't wanna
call string extensions everywhere, and
we want developers to be happy with us.
We're gonna extend this thing, we just
want this to kind of behave as it's,
if an extension of the string class,
even though it's there, check this out.
If I go maam.IsPalindrome,
I now have access to that method
as if it was on the class.
So, you notice, if I hover over it,
it says extension, and
that's because it is
still a static method.
It is not it does not belong to
the string class in any way, but
it behaves as though it is
inside of the editor, and
that's because we've defined
it as an extension method.
What's the magic that makes that happen?
It's "this" keyword right here,
"this" keyword, literally "this" keyword,
that "this" keyword is
the thing that defines this,
the things that makes
this an extension method.
So, "this" is just basically
a marker to say hey, language
I want you to, or really the compiler, I want you to
interpret uses of this IsPalindrome method,
as if it were on the actual
instance of a string.
The moment we delete this,
we come down here, and
we can see that there's no, it doesn't
have a definition for IsPalindrome.
And no extension method accepts a first
argument of type string could be found,
are you missing a using or
a directive or an assembly reference?
So as soon as we took that out, we no
longer have this as an extension method, now,
again, when we put it back,
we don't get the compiler error.
Again, we're not actually
extending the string class,
it's kind of a pattern called a mixing,
and this is common in JavaScript.
Where you just add kind of behaviors, but
it's a lot easier to add behaviors in
JavaScript to existing things
that it is and c sharp.
So, in that we can define
additional behaviors,
we can even treat them like a little
property, it's a method, but
it's open parens, close parens,
it kind of behaves the same way.
So, it's our way of extending
the string class and
not actually extending the string class.
So, this is really useful,
especially as we get to to talking
about some of the features
that are really cool.
But here's a real example from
the .NET Core runtime code.
So, they have an interface
called ILogger, and
that logger essentially has a one
method that looks kind of like this,
where you give it a log level,
and a string of message.
It also takes in additional stuff,
like exceptions and
other things that you may want to
log additional properties, but
it's got one defined interface, and
it's got one method on that right?
And we want to be able to,
very simply, make it so
that when our developer goes to
an instance of ILogger and says dot log.
Maybe they don't wanna type out log level
dot information as the first argument
every time.
Maybe they just wanna type
out log information, right?
So we can provide extension
methods that allow the developer
to kind of extend that class in
a way that feels natural, but
also keeps the surface of
the Ilogger interface very small.
Imagine the converse to this,
which is that you have a interface
where you have log information,
log warning, log error, and all of those
things exist on this logger class.
Not only are you adding a bunch of
behavior where now you have to implement
that behavior and
maybe you make a mistake, but.
A lot of extra typing that
simply isn't necessary,
because we know our log levels ahead of
time, we know that they're information,
warning, error, debug, trace,
those kinds of things.
We can just define extension methods
to just make it so that we add,
we can just go logger.LogInformation
and then just type in the message.
It's important to note,
that your extension methods are methods so
they can have as many
arguments as you want.
So, another example might be
public static bool AreWords,
let's see, public static
string To, ConcatAndToUpper.
So, we can call our string, our
original string, and then call concat,
then have another string that
we wanna concatenate with this.
So, there's no this keyword
after any other argument,
it only operates on the first one.
One, but we can have second string, and
then we could say return,
string.Concat.
So, string, dot, second string,
and then to upper, okay?
And the way that looks then is that
down here, concat and to upper.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So,
we'll concatenate those things and
then call to upper on them, so,
you can provide additional arguments,
but this essentially becomes the first
argument in your extension method.
The class that you're operating on, is the
or the instance of the class that you're
operating on is the thing that the becomes
the first argument to ConcatAndToUpper.
So that's extension methods,
you'll see them a lot,
you'll see them a lot in the runtime.
It will tell you if something
is an extension method,
usually denoted by just another symbol,
so concat and to upper.
Let's see, does it do that?
It does tell at least it tells us it's
an extension, in some IDEs, like Rider,
it will actually have a slightly
different symbol for these.
This is an actual method on the string
class, this is a our extension method, so.